---
layout: post
title: Workshop: AI in Production
---

For many decades, AI in production has been an ever-occurring topic, probably starting with expert systems in production planning and control in the early 1980s. Production is an excellent area of application for AI because, firstly, there are many problems in production that have not yet been solved, or at least not solved well enough; secondly, there is a lot of historical data (and more and more thanks to Industry 4.0 and increasing digitalisation) that can be used for machine learning; and thirdly, production is characterised by uncertainty, which many AI approaches can cope well with. 
Typical application areas for AI in production include predictive maintenance, quality control, root-cause-analysis, supply chain management, robotics, process optimization, human-machine partnerships, safety, configuration and customization, smart energy management, product lifecycle management, and computer vision. Moreover, AI will also play an important role in achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals by enhancing efficiency, sustainability, and safety across these sectors.
The recent emergence of widespread and successful large language models (LLMs) has further fuelled the use of AI in production, and there are now several successful applications of AI in production in practice, and many more are about to be put into practice. Moreover, AI in production will lead to greater economic and social success in the medium and long term. AI in production is, therefore, extremely relevant.

Furthermore, production is characterised by a number of NP-complete problems. We do not currently assume that we will be able to solve these problems exactly on a realistic scale, but AI can at least help us to solve these problems better than before. NP-complete problems also occur in other domains, and approaches to solving them are transferable to these domains, so our workshop is also of interest to the general AI community and the conference audience.

Our workshop aims to bring together researchers and practitioners from the fields of AI and/or production investigating, developing, or exploring AI techniques in production. We aim to provide a platform for the exchange of ideas and experiences under the general topic of 'AI in Production', not specializing in certain fields of production nor AI but explicitly including production planning, control and optimization. Ideally, our workshop will enable us to standardize approaches for supporting production applying AI or to transfer these approaches from one area of application in production to another. Thus, the Workshop is not only intended for experts in artificial intelligence (in production), but explicitly also for professionals from production.

### Topics

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to applications of AI in production to:
- explainable AI,
- interactive AI, 
- generative AI,
- process automation,
- quality control,
- controlling robots,
- supply chain management,
- predictive maintenance,
- planning and control,
- optimisation,
- configuration management,
- knowledge graphs in manufacturing

